LOREHOLD STUDENT

Skill Proficiencies: History, Religion
Languages: Two of your choice

Equipment: A bottle of black ink, an ink pen, a hammer, a hooded lantern, a tinderbox, a tome of history, a school uniform, and a pouch containing 15 gp

Feature: Lorehold Initiate
You gain the Strixhaven Initiate feat and must choose Lorehold within it.
In addition, if you have the Spellcasting or Pact Magic feature, the spells on the Lorehold Spells table are added to the spell list of your spellcasting class. If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these spells are added to all of them.

Lorehold Spells

Spell Level | Spells
1st | Comprehend Languages, Identify
2nd | Borrowed Knowledge, Locate Object
3rd | Speak with Dead, Spirit Guardians
4th | Arcane Eye, Stone Shape
5th | Flame Strike, Legend Lore

Consider customizing how your spells look when you cast them. Your Lorehold spells might create displays of golden light. You might use a tome or a scroll as a spellcasting focus, and your spell effects might reflect the appearance of the reference books you study.
Building a Lorehold Character
Any class or subclass that deals with knowledge of the past can be a good fit in Lorehold. Bards thrive here, and wizards, particularly those of the School of Divination, are numerous among its students. Clerics, often with the Knowledge or Light domains, are also quite common.

For a more unusual take, you could consider a barbarian with a primal connection to the past, such as one who follows the Path of the Ancestral Guardian, or a paladin whose Oath of the Ancients provides a direct link to history.

Suggested Characteristics
Methodical historians and daring adventurers alike can be found among the ranks of Lorehold College.
Lorehold Personality Traits

d6 Personality Trait
1 I thrive on esoteric lore. The more obscure the historical references I can include in everyday conversation, the better.
2 By searching for these lost artifacts, I hope to find who I really am along the way.
3 I can barely go a minute without talking about my research. I have so much knowledge in my head, and it needs to be let out somewhere.
4 The spirits of the dead are so much more interesting to talk with than living classmates.
5 I can speak eloquently about the historical ramifications of an ancient war, but ask me to add two-digit numbers together and I am a mess.
6 In the end, it is all just entropy. Everything falls apart someday.

Lorehold Trinkets
When you make your character, you may roll once on the Lorehold Trinkets table instead of on the Trinkets table in the Player’s Handbook for your starting trinket.

