PRISMARI STUDENT

Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics, Performance
Tool Proficiencies: One type of musical instrument or artisan’s tools
Languages: One of your choice

Equipment: A bottle of black ink, an ink pen, a set of artisan’s tools or a musical instrument (one of your choice), a school uniform, and a pouch containing 10 gp

Feature: Prismari Initiate
You gain the Strixhaven Initiate feat and must choose Prismari within it.
In addition, if you have the Spellcasting or Pact Magic feature, the spells on the Prismari Spells table are added to the spell list of your spellcasting class. If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these spells are added to all of them.

Prismari Spells

Spell Level | Spells
1st | Chromatic Orb, Thunderwave
2nd | Flaming Sphere, Kinetic Jaunt
3rd | Haste, Water Walk
4th | Freedom of Movement, Wall of Fire
5th | Cone of Cold, Conjure Elemental

Consider customizing how your spells look when you cast them. You might wield your Prismari spells with dynamic, gestural movement, as much dance as somatic component. Even a blast of fire in your hands is a sculpted work of art. Elemental forces make grand designs as you hurl spells. These forces might linger on your body or in your clothes as decorative elements after your spells dissipate, as sparks dance in your hair and your touch leaves tracings of frost on whatever you touch.

Building a Prismari Character
Any class or subclass that wields elemental forces of cold, fire, lightning, and wind can be a good fit in Prismari. Druids and sorcerers are common here, as are wizards who study the Schools of Evocation or Transmutation. Clerics are rare, but some with the Tempest domain find a place at Prismari.

Monks who follow the Way of the Four Elements also thrive in Prismari. Some acrobatic rogues and fighters, including those who emulate the Eldritch Knight archetype, delight in the athleticism and dramatic flair of Prismari performance.

Suggested Characteristics
Though the curriculum of Prismari College attracts many outgoing and driven artists, the school also has shy scholars and lackadaisical blowhards among its ranks.

Prismari Personality Traits

d6 Personality Trait
1 I am the life of the party, and I expect everyone’s attention when I walk into a room.
2 Two weeks ago, I was enthralled with my latest project. Now, I think it is garbage and deserves to be destroyed.
3 I believe everyone has the ability to express their truest selves through art, and I am happy to quietly push them in the right direction.
4 Everyone is a critic, and I work to win them all over.
5 I am beset with such an overwhelming sense of ennui regarding my art. Nothing quite captures my attention anymore.
6 Instead of confronting my negative emotions, I channel them into explosive artistic displays.

Prismari Trinkets
When you make your character, you may roll once on the Prismari Trinkets table instead of on the Trinkets table in the Player’s Handbook for your starting trinket.

