QUANDRIX STUDENT

Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Nature
Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools
Languages: One of your choice
Equipment: A bottle of black ink, an ink pen, an abacus, a book of arcane theory, a school uniform, and a pouch containing 15 gp

Feature: Quandrix Initiate
You gain the Strixhaven Initiate feat and must choose Quandrix within it.
In addition, if you have the Spellcasting or Pact Magic feature, the spells on the Quandrix Spells table are added to the spell list of your spellcasting class. If you are a multiclass character with multiple spell lists, these spells are added to all of them.

Quandrix Spells

Spell Level | Spells
1st | Entangle, Guiding Bolt
2nd | Enlarge/Reduce, Vortex Warp
3rd | Aura of Vitality, Haste
4th | Control Water, Freedom of Movement
5th | Circle of Power, Passwall

Consider customizing how your spells look when you cast them. Your Quandrix spells might manifest amid kaleidoscopic swirls of fractal patterns, amplifying the tiniest movements of your somatic components. When your magic creates or alters creatures, it might briefly surround the targets with shimmering fractal designs or tessellated patterns.

Building a Quandrix Character
Any spellcasting class or subclass can work well for a Quandrix character. Wizards, especially those who study the Schools of Abjuration, Illusion, or Transmutation, are common, as are sorcerers who enjoy manipulating magic at a fundamental level. Many druids explore the patterns of nature here. Clerics with the Knowledge or Nature domains also fit well within Quandrix.
Some fighters, monks, rangers, and rogues also study at Quandrix, applying mathematical and theoretical principles to sharpen their discipline and combat techniques.

Suggested Characteristics
With subjects ranging from the physical and tangible to the paradoxical and strange, the student body of Quandrix College includes an eclectic mix of individuals.

Quandrix Personality Traits

d6 Personality Trait
1 When I find a subject I am interested in, I will not stop studying until I know everything about it. It keeps me up at night.
2 I hope this all makes sense to me one day. Until then, I am going to keep faking it.
3 Equations and patterns come naturally to my mind. I wish friendship came just as easily.
4 I believe I am always the smartest person in the room. And I will prove it, even if no one asks me to.
5 If these classes have taught me anything, it is that reality is a lie, and nothing matters. So why bother?
6 Before I graduate, I want to achieve something mathematically impossible. I must leave a legacy.

Quandrix Trinkets
When you make your character, you may roll once on the Quandrix Trinkets table instead of on the Trinkets table in the Player’s Handbook for your starting trinket.

