BALDUR’S GATE CHARLATAN

Skill Proficiencies: Deception, Sleight of Hand
Tool Proficiencies: Disguise kit, Forgery kit
Equipment: A set of fine clothes, a disguise kit, tools of the con of your choice (ten stoppered bottles filled with colored liquid, a set of weighted dice, a deck of marked cards, or a signet ring of an imaginary duke), and a belt pouch containing 15 gp

Feature: False Identity
You have created a second identity that includes documentation, established acquaintances, and disguises that allow you to assume that persona. Additionally, you can forge documents including official papers and personal letters, as long as you have seen an example of the kind of document or the handwriting you are trying to copy.

Baldur’s Gate Feature: Long-Lost Heir
The effects of a Baldur’s Gate feature can be used only while the character is in Baldur’s Gate, though at the DM’s discretion, they might have applicable effects in situations similar to those in Baldur’s Gate.
You are well-versed in the mannerisms and idiosyncrasies of Baldurian patriars and other nobles, imitating them smoothly enough to convince even the snootiest family heads of your authenticity. You are skilled at posing as the long-lost heir to some imaginary or extinguished patriar lineage.
Because of your skill in passing yourself off as a patriar, you have a Watch token that allows you alone into the Upper City of Baldur’s Gate. You might be able to bluff others through with you, or even convince members of the Watch that you are a patriar. However, any true test of your authenticity is likely to reveal your deception.

Favorite Schemes

d6 Scam
1 I cheat at games of chance.
2 I shave coins or forge documents.
3 I insinuate myself into people’s lives to prey on their weakness and secure their fortunes.
4 I put on new identities like clothes.
5 I run sleight-of-hand cons on street corners.
6 I convince people that worthless junk is worth their hard-earned money.

Suggested Characteristics
Charlatans are colorful characters who conceal their true selves behind the masks they construct. They reflect what people want to see, what they want to believe, and how they see the world. But their true selves are sometimes plagued by an uneasy conscience, an old enemy, or deep-seated trust issues.

d8 Personality Trait
1 I fall in and out of love easily and am always pursuing someone.
2 I have a joke for every occasion, especially occasions where humor is inappropriate.
3 Flattery is my preferred trick for getting what I want.
4 I am a born gambler who cannot resist taking a risk for a potential payoff.
5 I lie about almost everything, even when there is no reason to.
6 Sarcasm and insults are my weapons of choice.
7 I keep multiple holy symbols on me and invoke whatever deity might come in useful at any given moment.
8 I pocket anything I see that might have some value.

d6 Ideal
1 Independence. I am a free spirit. No one tells me what to do. (Chaotic)
2 Fairness. I never target people who cannot afford to lose a few coins. (Lawful)
3 Charity. I distribute the money I acquire to the people who really need it. (Good)
4 Creativity. I never run the same con twice. (Chaotic)
5 Friendship. Material goods come and go. Bonds of friendship last forever. (Good)
6 Aspiration. I am determined to make something of myself. (Any)

d6 Bond
1 I fleeced the wrong person and must ensure that this individual never crosses paths with me or those I care about.
2 I owe everything to my mentor, a horrible person who is probably rotting in jail somewhere.
3 Somewhere out there, I have a child who does not know me. I am making the world better for them.
4 I come from a noble family, and one day I will reclaim my lands and title from those who stole them from me.
5 A powerful person killed someone I love. One day soon, I will have my revenge.
6 I swindled and ruined a person who did not deserve it. I seek to atone for my misdeeds but might never be able to forgive myself.

d6 Flaw
1 I cannot resist a pretty face.
2 I am always in debt. I spend my ill-gotten gains on decadent luxuries faster than I bring them in.
3 I am convinced that no one could ever fool me the way I fool others.
4 I am too greedy for my own good. I cannot resist taking a risk if money is involved.
5 I cannot resist swindling people who are more powerful than me.
6 I hate to admit it, but I will run and preserve my own hide if the going gets tough.
