LOXODON                             

Ability Scores: Constitution +2; Wisdom +1
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium
Speed: 30 feet

Age. Loxodons physically mature at the same rate as humans, but they live about 450 years. They highly value the weight of wisdom and experience and are considered young until they reach the age of 60.

Alignment. Most loxodons are lawful, believing in the value of a peaceful, ordered life. They also tend toward good.

Size. Loxodons stand between 7 and 8 feet tall. Their massive bodies weigh between 300 and 400 pounds. Your size is Medium.

Powerful Build. You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift.

Loxodon Serenity. You have advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened.

Natural Armor. You have thick, leathery skin. When you aren’t wearing armor, your AC is 12 + your Constitution modifier. You can use your natural armor to determine your AC if the armor you wear would leave you with a lower AC. A shield’s benefits apply as normal while you use your natural armor.

Trunk. You can grasp things with your trunk, and you can use it as a snorkel. It has a reach of 5 feet, and it can lift a number of pounds equal to five times your Strength score. You can use it to do the following simple tasks: lift, drop, hold, push, or pull an object or a creature; open or close a door or a container; grapple someone; or make an unarmed strike. Your DM might allow other simple tasks to be added to that list of options.

Your trunk can’t wield weapons or shields or do anything that requires manual precision, such as using tools or magic items or performing the somatic components of a spell.

Keen Smell. Thanks to your sensitive trunk, you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception), Wisdom (Survival), and Intelligence (Investigation) checks that involve smell.

Languages. You can speak, read, and write Common and Loxodon.

Random Height and Weight
Base Height: 6'7"
Base Weight: 295 lb.
Height Modifier: +2d10
Weight Modifier: × (2d4) lb.

